# Image-Segmentation-Tool-Kit-
PyQt4 GUI based app for  analysis of different image segmentation algorithm. All algorithm is in python language.

  # Simple and Efficient Seeded Region Growth Algorithm
      Hi friend ! In my file filename has 3 different approach for region growth algorithm.
      In first one is region_grow_point in which I take one seed point and every time key of region growth is the difference       between this seed and another point.But it is inefficient and not gonna work proper. Just think we have some point in cluster and we want to know, whether  an another point should be include in this cluster or not. What should be our approach ? A single point  can not represent the property of whole cluster. We see many objects in our daily life ,the colour of whole object never looks uniform, even if the colour of whole object is uniform. So I assume our brain always consider the average colour of object. This is key point for second function implementation region_grow_avg. Here I include the point into the cluster on the basis of difference between average of cluster point and given point.   
      But it is also not very accurate in some cases like gradient colour images, hmm Its gonna some complex , however let us try to understand . 
        Assume if we have a gradient image ( 100 * 200 ) of red colour ,colour intensity is decreasing through height and   increasing through width. Now we apply 2nd algorithm for this image. lets our threshold is 30 and current seed is (220,23,23).
      if our region grow in direction where the intensity of our colour is lower but difference is under the thresold. Then our average of cluster is being lower.  After some growth there may be a chance that average of point become sufficient lower that it may not include some point in cluster which should be include in the cluster on the basis of before selected seed point. 
        Assume if we have a gradient image ( 100 * 200 ) of red colour ,colour intensity is decreasing through height and increasing through width. Now we apply 2nd algorithm for this image. lets our threshold is 30 and current seed is (220,23,23).
      if our region grow in direction where the intensity of our colour is lower but difference is under the thresold. Then our average of cluster is being lower.  After some growth there may be a chance that average of point become sufficient lower that it may not include some point in cluster which should be include in the cluster on the basis of before selected seed point.  So my third approach is we should have to include the point in the cluster on the basis of increasing difference of average of cluster and given point. For it i use priority queue ,see function region_grow_priorityQ . This become very efficient algorithm I tested it in many images it give me very satisfactry result.
    
